[SubTitle:MAKING A BOOKING]

!In General:
We recommend that our guests  read and respect the terms and conditions regarding bookings and payments. If these conditions are not respected it is possible that the reservations will not be considered valid anymore and we shall be unable to give a refund. Any alternative agreement between customers and Borgo Telematico must be put in writing, or it will not be considered valid.

!Deposit and Payment:
An approved reservation will be held for 72 hours until it is confirmed by payment of a deposit of 30% of the total amount (the online payment system accepts credit cards and details for bank transfers).  A reservation is confirmed when the deposit is paid.
Full payment must be made 30 days prior to arrival. In particular situations, or if the arrival is very close to the time of booking (24-72 hours), the full payment is required immediately. In these cases, the staff can confirm the booking and the payment can be made on arrival (by cash or credit card). For bank swift please use the following bank details: 
TREEHOUSE ITALIA SRL   
Banca di Desio e della Brianza SPA
Codice Filiale: 396
Piazza Mameli 28r, 17100 Savona
IBAN: IT59 K034 4010 6000 0000 0198 300
BIC: BDBDIT22


!Seasons and costs:
Rental prices at Colletta vary according to the season. There are two seasons: low and high. The dates for these seasons are shown on the Season Calendar. The staff is not allowed to accept requests for alteration of the season calendar by the guests.
Prices are per apartment and are fully inclusive: water, electricity, bedding and towels, internet connection, underfloor heating (from the second week of September until the end of April) and air conditioning (where available). It also includes use of the computer in the meeting rooms, borrowing of books and dvds from the library and on-site assistance by our resident rentals manager. Unless specified above nothing else is included in the price.

!Cancellation:
If a booking is cancelled by the client, or the booking expires because the full amount was not paid, then a cancellation fee may be charged: For cancellation up to 30 days before arrival a 30% cancellation fee on the total charge, 29 days to 14 days the fee is 40% and from 13 days up to the day cancellation charge of 80%. In extraordinary circumstances (eg COVID restrictions), cancellation without penalty is allowed by either party. The fee for the opening the reception remains € 50.00. Any fee for the delivery of the keys in advance will not be returned. 

!Substitution:
Sometimes, for causes beyond our control, we may be obliged to change an apartment with another that will have similar characteristics or upgrade to another one that would be more expensive without any additional charge or, subject to the client agreement, downgrade it to another flat refunding the difference. Because of the particular features of the village and the uniqueness of every apartment, an upgrade to a superior accommodation is not always possible.
$$
$$
$$
[SubTitle:IN THE VILLAGE]
!Arrival:

Check-in is between 3.00pm and 6.00pm. Please note that after that time, you will have to contact our rental system on +39 340 340 3603 . On arrival in the village, please go to the office on the right going down the hill or the bar located on the right hand side of the small main square, to check-in and receive your keys. You must show your voucher (printable from your booking form) and a document in order to check-in. A damage deposit of 200 euros in cash is required. We kindly ask you to inform us if you are going to arrive later than 6.00 pm. A late check-in after 9.00 pm is possible, but 30,00 euro are required for this service.


!Departure:
Checkout time is 10:00.  Please return your keys to the rental personnel. Your damage deposit will be returned at checkout providing no damage has occurred.

!Parking:
You may park [Bold:only] on the top level of the  multilevel car park adjacent to the village. The piazza at the entrance to the village is [Bold:only] for dropping off and picking up luggage, as is the turning circle at the end of the lower driveway entrance.

!Number of People:
The apartment can accommodate a precise number of people, including children. It is not possible to rent a property to a group consisting of more people than the maximum allowed. If the apartment is big enough,  it is possible to add a baby’s cot, subject to agreement by the management.

!Swimming Pool:
The swimming pool will be open from the 15th May to 15th September. The pool will be supervised by a lifeguard according to the following schedule:$$

    * 15/5 to 14/7 from 10:00 to 12:00 and from 14:00 to 18:00, 6 days per week (closed Mondays)$$
    * 15/7 to 31/7 from 10:00 to 12:00 and from 14:00 to 18:00, 7 days per week$$
    * 1/8 to 31/8 from 10:00 to 18:00, 7 days per week$$
    * 1/9 to 15/9 from 10:00 to 12:00 and from 14:00 to 18:00, 6 days per week (closed Mondays)$$

[Bathing outside of these hours is unauthorised.]$$


!Linen and Laundry:
Towels and linen are included in the price.  An additional towel and linen change can be requested for a fee. A communal laundry with washing machines/dryers is located close to the apartments and tokens can be purchased in the office or the bar (€1.50 per token).

Laundry and swimming pool towels [Bold:must not] be left outside the apartment to dry.

!Cleaning and Responsibility:
A final cleaning of the apartment is included in the rental price.  Please leave the apartment in the same good condition in which you found it.  We would like to inform our guests that 100, 00 euro will be retained from the deposit, if the kitchen is not clean, if the litter hasn’t been thrown away, of if the fridge hasn’t been emptied on the departure day. 
Guests must be respectful of the apartments, as they will be considered responsible in case of damage caused by them or members of their group, even if they are insured. 
Guests who behave in an improper or unacceptable way could be asked to leave by the personnel and their booking will automatically expire, without notice or refund.


!Garbage Disposal
During your stay, please dispose of your garbage in the collection bins located on the top level of the carpark next to the village. Please dispose of this promptly and do not leave garbage bags outside of the apartment as this is both a health hazard as well as detracting from the beauty of Colletta.

!Noise:
Please respect your neighbours and do not play excessively loud music or television.  The village regulations require quiet after midnight.  In case of bothersome noises after midnight the staff is allowed to act as they consider necessary, even asking the guest to leave without notice or refund.

!Attention:
Please note that some flats have internal staircases. Check the lay-out prior to booking if this is an issue for you. The streets of Colletta are narrow and irregular, there are steep stairs and paths, so it could be dangerous. The company is not responsible for damages occurred to people and objects and the company is not responsible for theft of unattended goods.

!Pets:
Pets are allowed in some of the apartments. Please check where this is applicable.

!Assistance:
Guests must promptly inform the personnel in case of any problems within the apartments (within 72 hours). Our staff will do their best to try to solve any problem, but we can’t guarantee a resolution in all circumstances.

!Notes:
Colletta has been internally restored to 21st century standard but the externals are authentic to the
village 12th century roots. This means that most walking surfaces are [uneven] and you will need to be able-footed. The car park is 50m above the village but you can stop your car at the village entrance to unload your luggage.  You will be met either at the office or bar and will be shown to your apartment.   Flat shoes are recommended and luggage will need to be compact to enable you to navigate your way to your apartment. Wheels will not work on the Colletta roads. 
The company can’t be considered responsible in case of damage occurring to individuals and their property.
