This beautifully finished 3-bedroom apartment is the largest available for rent in Colletta. It has an excellent position on top of the village with stunning views from both of its spacious terraces.  It also has convenient access to the Osteria/bar, the laundry room and the pool (seasonal).  Under floor heating in all rooms provides comfort for stays in autumn, winter and spring. 

This large apartment is comprised of 3 bedrooms, 2 bathrooms, a living room and a kitchen.  The living room is nicely furnished and features a sectional sofa, a wood burning stove, exposed beams and wood flooring.  It also has a flat screen TV, a DVD player, a satellite decoder and an iPod docking station.  There is also a dining table and chairs as well as a workstation with Internet access.  The kitchen is well equipped with all the appliances and items you will need for your stay.  Just off the living room is the master suite with views overlooking the piazzetta.  There is an en suite bathroom that has a shower with a waterfall showerhead (no tub). On the opposite side of the apartment are the other 2 bedrooms and the second bathroom.  The second bedroom is complete with a double bed and a wardrobe rack.  The third bedroom offers bunk beds and a pullout couch (oversized single bed) that could accommodate 2 small children or one adult.  The shared bathroom near these 2 bedrooms features a tub (shower handle). 

There are 2 amazing terraces with this apartment.  One is off the living room and has a private grotto-like dining area with an incredible view of our local mountains. This is one of the most special spots in the village.  The second terrace is off of the kitchen and is equipped with sun beds and also features unobstructed views of the Pennavaire valley and mountains. Both terraces are ideal venues to sit back, relax and reflect on the splendour. 

The Mansarda apartment is ideal for a large family, 2 families with children that can share a room or for a group of friends.  It should be noted that there are several steps up to the front door, a few steps internally and several steps on the terrace off of the kitchen. 

.
