Alassio, the "queen of the Riviera delle Palme" is one of the most famous seaside resorts in Liguria. Its 4km of sandy beaches are gently lapped by the azure waters of the Mediterranean Sea, against the backdrop of the green hills and valleys of the Maritime Alps.

Founded some time in the 6th-7th centuries, Alassio became the property of nearby Albenga in the 1300s before finally gaining its independence in the 16th century. In the 1800s it became the playground of wealthy English tourists and the Art Nouveau architecture, gardens and luxury hotels date from this period.

The historical centre retains its authentic Ligurian character, typified by a long narrow main street running parallel to the waterfront. The main street, Via XX Settembre (or "budello" as it is known) is lined with chic boutiques, gelaterie, pasticcerie, cafes and restaurants. A few steps down one of the side streets (known as "esci") leads you to the beach, where any one of the many waterside cafes will be pleased to serve you a glass of wine, a coffee or a meal under the shade of their umbrellas.

Two blocks from the beach up Via Cavour in the Piazza Libertà, you will find the charming "muretto". This is the work of the proprietor of the Caffè Roma, who, in the 1950s decided to commemorate the visits of his famous guests to his cafe by placing decorative tiles on the wall of the Piazza. You will find artefacts dedicated to the visits of all kinds of celebrities, ranging from literary icons such Ernest Hemingway, to entertainment celebrities such as Anita Ekberg, to sporting greats like Alberta Tomba.

The legend of Alassio .....$$
According to legend, Alassio owes its existence to the tale of two young lovers: Adelasia, daughter of Otto I of Saxony, Holy Roman Emperor from 936-972, and Aleramo, a young man in his court. The two fell in love, but were forbidden to be together by the Emperor, so they fled to the area around Albenga, marrying and having children there. Eventually, Otto I came to visit the Bishop of Albenga and during his visit, forgave his daughter and her husband, and gave them all the lands in the area that Aleramo could reach on horseback in one day. His name is remembered today in the area known as the "Marca Aleramica" stretching from the Po river down to the coast near Alassio. A town grew up in this area and was named "Alaxia" in honour of the Emperor's daughter, becoming "Alassio" with the passage of time.

[[http://www.comune.alassio.sv.it/: Official WebSite of Alassio]]
