In addition to Colletta's own superb [[/village/restaurant:Osteria]] there are several other delightful restaurants in the immediate vicinity in the Val Pennavaire, which is roughly the area stretching from Nasino a few kilometres north of Colletta, down to Cisano sul Neva this side of the Autostrada toll. You will find that many restaurants pride themselves on their preparation of traditional Ligurian specialities. The [[http://www.slowfood.it:Slow Food]] movement also has a great influence throughout this area, and many restaurants display the characteristic emblem of the snail. The idea is that you can’t hurry the growth, the preparation or the consumption of food without losing nourishment, flavour and enjoyment.

Restaurants are not the only places where you can eat out. There are also many [[http://www.colletta.it/activities/festesagre:feste and sagre]] at which you can eat cheaply and well. If you are a real foodie you can enrol with [[http://www.homefood.it:Home Food]] and attend dinner parties at the homes of approved hosts!

You are welcome to [[reviews:contribute reviews]] of restaurants.

!Eating out in Italy
The general format of a meal in the ristoranti is to have either or both an antipasto and a primo, followed by a secondo, and then maybe a dessert – always followed by a coffee to finish up, and perhaps a digestivo (a grappa, amaro or limoncino), frequently offered 'on the house'. You will drink some wine and some mineral water, natural or gassed. If you want any accompaniments (contorni), like vegetables, with your secondo then you must order them specifically. They will normally be served cold. Bread will be brought to the table, but not butter. The coffee will be the tiny strong black Italian style of espresso. Children generally eat the same sorts of thing as the adults. 

In a pizzeria, however, anything goes - but pizza is mainly an evening thing.

In high season you need to book your table, even at lunchtime, to be sure of getting in. For some festival meals, like at Easter and New Year, you need to book well in advance.

In the hinterland of Liguria, there is not usually much fish on offer (except stoccafisso - a cod and potato stew), but typically there is rabbit (coniglio), wild boar (cinghiale) and perhaps deer (cervo/capriolo) or goat (capra/capretto), as well as the more common meats like veal (vitello), beef (manzo) and pork (maiale). Sometimes there is chicken (pollo), and occasionally duck (anatra) or turkey (tacchino). Artichokes (carciofi), courgettes (zucchini/trombette) and their flowers, purple asparagus (asparagi) and mushrooms (funghi) are used a lot when in season. The Albenga area also prides itself on its 'cuore di bue' tomatoes.

On the coast fish predominates, the most commonly offered varieties being sea bream (orata), sea bass (branzino), sword fish (pesce spada) and tuna (tonno, palamita) - although there are many others sometimes available, often on the menu as 'catch of the day' (pescato del giorno) - e.g. gallinella (gurnard), marmora/mormora/pagello, occhione/besugo, pagaro, cernia, ombrino, coda di rospo/rana pescatrice (monk fish), sogliola (sole), platessa (plaice), ricciola, San Pietro, sarago, scombro (mackerel), ...

There is also, naturally, plenty of sea food (frutti di mare), such as calamari (squid) and similar things such as totani and seppie (cuttlefish), clams (vongole), mussels (cozze), gamberi (prawns) with suffixes like -oni and -etti to indicate the size (large/small). The prawns from Oneglia are of such high quality that they may be eaten raw. Steamed tiny white newly born fish, known as neonate, bianchetti, gianchetti or rossetti, are offered at certain times of the year. Anchovies (acciughe) are often available marinaded in oil or deep fried. Sardines (sarde) can sometimes be found.

In many of the restaurants that don’t present you with a detailed menu you will be asked if you want antipasto, and if you do you will be served with a succession of up to seven small dishes, varying according to the season and the house specialities. If you want, you can wait until after the antipasto before ordering anything else.

The upmarket restaurants generally have professional chefs, but the more homely ones generally have the family members or locals doing the cooking and serving.

Generally waiters are paid a proper wage and even though it is rare to see a service charge added to a bill tipping is not the semi-compulsory practice that it is in the UK and in the USA in particular. However, it is a nice gesture to show your appreciation - especially if you would like a warm welcome next time you pay a visit! Note, however, that there is often a small cover charge ('pane e coperto') per person, but this is nothing to do with service - think of it as hiring the table and the cutlery for the duration of your meal!
$$
